doc/source/getting_started/test_run.rst, before:

.. _test_run:

==================================
11. Test launch a VASP calculation
==================================

In this part we will simply launch a `VASP`_ calculation of silicon using the standard PBE silicon potential that you now should have sitting in your database at this point.

1. Please fetch the ``run_vasp_lean.py`` example::

     wget https://github.com/aiida-vasp/aiida-vasp/raw/develop/examples/run_vasp_lean.py

2. First, make sure your `AiiDA`_ virtual environment is activated. Then, check that the
   daemon is running::

     %/$ verdi daemon status
     Profile: generic
     Daemon is running as PID 32330 since 2019-09-25 18:34:15
     Active workers [1]:
     PID    MEM %    CPU %  started
     -----  -------  -------  -------------------
     32334    1.068        0  2019-09-25 18:34:15
     Use verdi daemon [incr | decr] [num] to increase / decrease the amount of workers

3. Have a look at the ``run_vasp_lean.py`` file and see if you can intuitively understand
   what it does. Most likely, you need to modify the following entries::

     options.account = '' # modify it to contain your account, if the cluster needs it
     options.qos = '' # modify it to contain your qos, if the cluster needs it
     options.queue_name = '' # modify it to contain your queue name, if the cluster needs it
     resources = {'num_machines': 1, 'num_mpiprocs_per_machine': 16} # modify it to relect your cluster

   Modify these and save the file.

4. Submit the `VASP`_ calculation by executing::

     %/$ python run_vasp_lean.py

5. Check the progress::

     %/$ verdi process list -a
     PK  Created    Process label    Process State     Process status
     ----  ---------  ---------------  ----------------  ----------------
     34  6h ago     VaspWorkChain    ⏹ Finished [0]
     35  6h ago     VaspCalculation  ⏹ Finished [0]

     Total results: 5

     Info: last time an entry changed state: 6h ago (at 15:00:40 on 2019-09-25)

   `AiiDA`_ relies mainly on the concept of ref:`workchains` which is a
   composition of a setup and teardown of :ref:`calculations` (or calls to
   other :ref:`workchains`).  A workchain can be composed into one or
   multiple `workflows`. A small amount of basic :ref:`workchains` are
   included in `AiiDA-VASP`_. Users are encouraged to develop new, or
   complementig :ref:`workchains` and submitting them to the repository to
   increase the efficiency of all `VASP`_ users.

   The test calculation above launched one :ref:`workchains` and one :ref:`calculations`. For
   `AiiDA-VASP`_ we would like users to only think about and use the :ref:`workchains` and not
   the :ref:`calculations`. The latter is there only to facilitate the execution of the `VASP`_
   executable.

6. When the calculation is finished, please have a look at the report of the workchain::

     %/$ verdi process report 34
     2019-09-25 14:59:34 [5  | REPORT]: [34|VaspWorkChain|run_calculation]: launching VaspCalculation<35> iteration #1
     2019-09-25 15:00:36 [6  | REPORT]: [34|VaspWorkChain|_handle_succesfull]: VaspCalculation<35> completed successfully
     2019-09-25 15:00:36 [7  | REPORT]: [34|VaspWorkChain|results]: VaspWorkChain<34> completed after 1 iterations
     2019-09-25 15:00:36 [8  | REPORT]: [34|VaspWorkChain|results]: attaching the node Dict<38> as 'misc'
     2019-09-25 15:00:36 [9  | REPORT]: [34|VaspWorkChain|results]: attaching the node RemoteData<36> as 'remote_folder'
     2019-09-25 15:00:36 [10 | REPORT]: [34|VaspWorkChain|results]: attaching the node FolderData<37> as 'retrieved'
     2019-09-25 15:00:39 [11 | REPORT]: [34|VaspWorkChain|on_terminated]: cleaned remote folders of calculations: 35

7. What is stored on the :ref:`vasp_workchain`::

     %/$ verdi process show 34
     Property       Value
     -------------  ------------------------------------
     type           WorkChainNode
     pk             34
     uuid           8d513090-b45d-4b94-8810-b1db4f932a74
     label
     description
     ctime          2019-09-25 14:59:27.028678+00:00
     mtime          2019-09-25 15:00:37.091972+00:00
     process state  Finished
     exit status    0
     computer       [2] saga

     Called by      PK  Type
     -----------  ----  -------------
     CALL           33  WorkChainNode

     Inputs               PK  Type
     -----------------  ----  -------------
     clean_workdir        31  Bool
     code                  2  Code
     kpoints              23  KpointsData
     max_iterations       30  Int
     options              27  Dict
     parameters           24  Dict
     potential_family     25  Str
     potential_mapping    26  Dict
     settings             28  Dict
     structure            22  StructureData
     verbose              29  Bool

     Outputs          PK  Type
     -------------  ----  ----------
     misc             38  Dict
     remote_folder    36  RemoteData
     retrieved        37  FolderData

     Called      PK  Type
     --------  ----  -----------
     CALL        35  CalcJobNode

     Log messages
     ---------------------------------------------
     There are 7 log messages for this calculation
     Run 'verdi process report 34' to see them

8. In the outputs there is a ``misc``. This is a container for properties that does not
   depend on system size. Typically, total energies, band gaps, maximum forces, different
   tensors etc. Let us see what it contains::

     %/$ verdi data dict show 38
     {
     "maximum_force": 0.0,
     "maximum_stress": 18.17613392,
     "symmetries": {
        "num_space_group_operations": {
            "dynamic": [
                48
            ],
            "static": [
                48
            ]
        },
        "point_group": {
            "dynamic": [
                "O_h"
            ],
            "static": [
                "O_h"
            ]
        },
        "primitive_translations": [
            1
        ]
     },
     "total_energies": {
     "energy_no_entropy": -10.79608481
     }
     }

9. You can control the output by adjusting the parameters related to the parser as defined in
   :ref:`parsing`.

.. _AiiDA-VASP: https://github.com/aiida-vasp/aiida-vasp
.. _AiiDA: https://www.aiida.net
.. _VASP: https://www.vasp.at

Commit message:

Update tutorial documents (#344)
* fix tab-completion

* example for SGE

* fix tutorials numbering

* remove account name and fix attribute name

doc/source/getting_started/test_run.rst, after:

.. _test_run:

==================================
11. Test launch a VASP calculation
==================================

In this part we will simply launch a `VASP`_ calculation of silicon using the standard PBE silicon potential that you now should have sitting in your database at this point.

1. Please fetch the ``run_vasp_lean.py`` example::

     wget https://github.com/aiida-vasp/aiida-vasp/raw/develop/examples/run_vasp_lean.py

2. First, make sure your `AiiDA`_ virtual environment is activated. Then, check that the
   daemon is running::

     %/$ verdi daemon status
     Profile: generic
     Daemon is running as PID 32330 since 2019-09-25 18:34:15
     Active workers [1]:
     PID    MEM %    CPU %  started
     -----  -------  -------  -------------------
     32334    1.068        0  2019-09-25 18:34:15
     Use verdi daemon [incr | decr] [num] to increase / decrease the amount of workers

3. Have a look at the ``run_vasp_lean.py`` file and see if you can intuitively understand
   what it does. Most likely, you need to modify the following entries::

     options.account = '' # modify it to contain your account, if the cluster needs it
     options.qos = '' # modify it to contain your qos, if the cluster needs it
     options.queue_name = '' # modify it to contain your queue name, if the cluster needs it
     resources = {'num_machines': 1, 'num_mpiprocs_per_machine': 16} # modify it to relect your cluster

   For example, if you use a SGE scheduler, you need to modify `resources` as follows::
     resources = {'num_machines': 1, 'tot_num_mpiprocs': 16, 'parallel_env': 'mpi*'}  # for SGE

   Modify these and save the file.

4. Submit the `VASP`_ calculation by executing::

     %/$ python run_vasp_lean.py

5. Check the progress::

     %/$ verdi process list -a
     PK  Created    Process label    Process State     Process status
     ----  ---------  ---------------  ----------------  ----------------
     34  6h ago     VaspWorkChain    ⏹ Finished [0]
     35  6h ago     VaspCalculation  ⏹ Finished [0]

     Total results: 5

     Info: last time an entry changed state: 6h ago (at 15:00:40 on 2019-09-25)

   `AiiDA`_ relies mainly on the concept of ref:`workchains` which is a
   composition of a setup and teardown of :ref:`calculations` (or calls to
   other :ref:`workchains`).  A workchain can be composed into one or
   multiple `workflows`. A small amount of basic :ref:`workchains` are
   included in `AiiDA-VASP`_. Users are encouraged to develop new, or
   complementig :ref:`workchains` and submitting them to the repository to
   increase the efficiency of all `VASP`_ users.

   The test calculation above launched one :ref:`workchains` and one :ref:`calculations`. For
   `AiiDA-VASP`_ we would like users to only think about and use the :ref:`workchains` and not
   the :ref:`calculations`. The latter is there only to facilitate the execution of the `VASP`_
   executable.

6. When the calculation is finished, please have a look at the report of the workchain::

     %/$ verdi process report 34
     2019-09-25 14:59:34 [5  | REPORT]: [34|VaspWorkChain|run_calculation]: launching VaspCalculation<35> iteration #1
     2019-09-25 15:00:36 [6  | REPORT]: [34|VaspWorkChain|_handle_succesfull]: VaspCalculation<35> completed successfully
     2019-09-25 15:00:36 [7  | REPORT]: [34|VaspWorkChain|results]: VaspWorkChain<34> completed after 1 iterations
     2019-09-25 15:00:36 [8  | REPORT]: [34|VaspWorkChain|results]: attaching the node Dict<38> as 'misc'
     2019-09-25 15:00:36 [9  | REPORT]: [34|VaspWorkChain|results]: attaching the node RemoteData<36> as 'remote_folder'
     2019-09-25 15:00:36 [10 | REPORT]: [34|VaspWorkChain|results]: attaching the node FolderData<37> as 'retrieved'
     2019-09-25 15:00:39 [11 | REPORT]: [34|VaspWorkChain|on_terminated]: cleaned remote folders of calculations: 35

7. What is stored on the :ref:`vasp_workchain`::

     %/$ verdi process show 34
     Property       Value
     -------------  ------------------------------------
     type           WorkChainNode
     pk             34
     uuid           8d513090-b45d-4b94-8810-b1db4f932a74
     label
     description
     ctime          2019-09-25 14:59:27.028678+00:00
     mtime          2019-09-25 15:00:37.091972+00:00
     process state  Finished
     exit status    0
     computer       [2] saga

     Called by      PK  Type
     -----------  ----  -------------
     CALL           33  WorkChainNode

     Inputs               PK  Type
     -----------------  ----  -------------
     clean_workdir        31  Bool
     code                  2  Code
     kpoints              23  KpointsData
     max_iterations       30  Int
     options              27  Dict
     parameters           24  Dict
     potential_family     25  Str
     potential_mapping    26  Dict
     settings             28  Dict
     structure            22  StructureData
     verbose              29  Bool

     Outputs          PK  Type
     -------------  ----  ----------
     misc             38  Dict
     remote_folder    36  RemoteData
     retrieved        37  FolderData

     Called      PK  Type
     --------  ----  -----------
     CALL        35  CalcJobNode

     Log messages
     ---------------------------------------------
     There are 7 log messages for this calculation
     Run 'verdi process report 34' to see them

8. In the outputs there is a ``misc``. This is a container for properties that does not
   depend on system size. Typically, total energies, band gaps, maximum forces, different
   tensors etc. Let us see what it contains::

     %/$ verdi data dict show 38
     {
     "maximum_force": 0.0,
     "maximum_stress": 18.17613392,
     "symmetries": {
        "num_space_group_operations": {
            "dynamic": [
                48
            ],
            "static": [
                48
            ]
        },
        "point_group": {
            "dynamic": [
                "O_h"
            ],
            "static": [
                "O_h"
            ]
        },
        "primitive_translations": [
            1
        ]
     },
     "total_energies": {
     "energy_no_entropy": -10.79608481
     }
     }

9. You can control the output by adjusting the parameters related to the parser as defined in
   :ref:`parsing`.

.. _AiiDA-VASP: https://github.com/aiida-vasp/aiida-vasp
.. _AiiDA: https://www.aiida.net
.. _VASP: https://www.vasp.at
