doc/source/index.rst, before:

 .. AiiDA-VASP documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Mon Feb 12 09:24:45 2018.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Welcome to AiiDA-VASP's documentation!
======================================

AiiDA-VASP is a plug-in for the workflow management and data provenance tracking framework `AiiDA`_. It provides the classes `AiiDA`_ needs to run simulations using `VASP`_ (Vienna Ab initio Simulation Package). `VASP`_ is a program for atomic scale materials modelling, e.g. electronic structure calculations and quantum-mechanical molecular dynamics, from first principles. For detailed documentation on using `VASP`_ take a look in their `VASP wiki`_.

AiiDA-VASP is under active development, check out the `changelog`_.

The plugin is only tested with VASP 5.4.4 and is compatible with Python>=3.6.

General comments about the user documentation and support
=========================================================

.. _convention:

We will try to keep the documentation updated for both the standard Python and the `Conda`_ virtual environment. In order to make this as clear as possible, we have opted for the following syntax::

  $ commands in a standard Linux console, used together with the standard Python virtual environment

  % commands in the Conda console, used together with the Conda virtual environment

  %/$ same commands in the Conda console or standard Linux console

  # commands executed in the Postgresql interactive terminal

As such, whenever needed, we will try to keep parallel documentation on this. If you are on a Conda
platform, please follow the commands prepended with ``%``. Similarly you follow the commands with
a ``$`` prepended if you are using the standard Python virtual enviroments. In case the commands are
the same for both cases, ``%/$`` is prepended to the commands. The commands executed in
the Postgresql interactive terminal (``psql``) should be similar between the two.

.. _AiiDA: https://www.aiida.net
.. _VASP: https://www.vasp.at
.. _VASP wiki: https://cms.mpi.univie.ac.at/wiki/index.php
.. _changelog: https://github.com/aiida-vasp/aiida-vasp/blob/develop/CHANGELOG.rst
.. _Conda: https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Getting started
   :hidden:

   getting_started/general
   getting_started/python
   getting_started/conda
   getting_started/rabbitmq
   getting_started/database
   getting_started/install
   getting_started/interact
   getting_started/profile
   getting_started/computer
   getting_started/code
   getting_started/potentials
   getting_started/test_run

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Tutorials
   :hidden:

   tutorials/fcc_si_step1
   tutorials/fcc_si_step2
   tutorials/fcc_si_step3
   tutorials/fcc_si_dos
   tutorials/run_vasp_builder
   tutorials/bulk_modulus
   tutorials/bulk_modulus_2
   tutorials/band_structure_electrons
   tutorials/a_daily_life

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Concepts
   :hidden:

   concepts/potentials
   concepts/calculations
   concepts/workchains
   concepts/workflows
   concepts/parsing
   concepts/immigrations

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Workflows
   :hidden:

   workflows/using_workflows
   workflows/designing_workflows

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Calculations
   :hidden:

   calculations/vasp
   calculations/wannier
   calculations/immigrator

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Workchains
   :hidden:

   workchains/vasp
   workchains/verify
   workchains/relax
   workchains/converge
   workchains/bands
   workchains/master
   workchains/writing_workchains

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Developments
   :hidden:

   developments/developments
   developments/running_tests
   changelog

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: API reference
   :hidden:

   api/aiida_vasp

Commit message:

Add documentation on contribs and developments

doc/source/index.rst, after:

 .. AiiDA-VASP documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Mon Feb 12 09:24:45 2018.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Welcome to AiiDA-VASP's documentation!
======================================

AiiDA-VASP is a plug-in for the workflow management and data provenance tracking framework `AiiDA`_. It provides the classes `AiiDA`_ needs to run simulations using `VASP`_ (Vienna Ab initio Simulation Package). `VASP`_ is a program for atomic scale materials modelling, e.g. electronic structure calculations and quantum-mechanical molecular dynamics, from first principles. For detailed documentation on using `VASP`_ take a look in their `VASP wiki`_.

AiiDA-VASP is under active development, check out the `changelog`_.

The plugin is only tested with VASP 5.4.4 and is compatible with Python>=3.6.

.. warning: Please accept that the development of this plugin is a community effort and any error, bug or missing functionality that might appear is the responsibility of the individual user. If you detect something that needs to be improved we highly encourage to open an issue or even better, submit a pull requests, where you try to fix the issue yourself. You can do this on our Github repository. 

.. note:
   We are currently looking for additional developers. If you are interested, please open an issue on our repository on Github.


General comments about the user documentation and support
=========================================================

.. _convention:

We will try to keep the documentation updated for both the standard Python and the `Conda`_ virtual environment. In order to make this as clear as possible, we have opted for the following syntax::

  $ commands in a standard Linux console, used together with the standard Python virtual environment

  % commands in the Conda console, used together with the Conda virtual environment

  %/$ same commands in the Conda console or standard Linux console

  # commands executed in the Postgresql interactive terminal

As such, whenever needed, we will try to keep parallel documentation on this. If you are on a Conda
platform, please follow the commands prepended with ``%``. Similarly you follow the commands with
a ``$`` prepended if you are using the standard Python virtual enviroments. In case the commands are
the same for both cases, ``%/$`` is prepended to the commands. The commands executed in
the Postgresql interactive terminal (``psql``) should be similar between the two.

.. _AiiDA: https://www.aiida.net
.. _VASP: https://www.vasp.at
.. _VASP wiki: https://cms.mpi.univie.ac.at/wiki/index.php
.. _changelog: https://github.com/aiida-vasp/aiida-vasp/blob/develop/CHANGELOG.rst
.. _Conda: https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Getting started
   :hidden:

   getting_started/general
   getting_started/python
   getting_started/conda
   getting_started/rabbitmq
   getting_started/database
   getting_started/install
   getting_started/interact
   getting_started/profile
   getting_started/computer
   getting_started/code
   getting_started/potentials
   getting_started/test_run

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Tutorials
   :hidden:

   tutorials/fcc_si_step1
   tutorials/fcc_si_step2
   tutorials/fcc_si_step3
   tutorials/fcc_si_dos
   tutorials/run_vasp_builder
   tutorials/bulk_modulus
   tutorials/bulk_modulus_2
   tutorials/band_structure_electrons
   tutorials/a_daily_life

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Concepts
   :hidden:

   concepts/potentials
   concepts/calculations
   concepts/workchains
   concepts/workflows
   concepts/parsing
   concepts/immigrations

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Workflows
   :hidden:

   workflows/using_workflows
   workflows/designing_workflows

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Calculations
   :hidden:

   calculations/vasp
   calculations/wannier
   calculations/immigrator

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Workchains
   :hidden:

   workchains/vasp
   workchains/verify
   workchains/relax
   workchains/converge
   workchains/bands
   workchains/master
   workchains/writing_workchains

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Developments
   :hidden:

   developments/general
   developments/developments
   developments/running_tests
   changelog

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: API reference
   :hidden:

   api/aiida_vasp
